How I went into REVER drunk

10th June 2025

If you are reading this you already know that I don't like conventional stuff. So of course my first ever job acceptance wasn't conventional either. Here's the story.

It was the end of my second term at university (March) and I wanted to find an internship to start on April. So I found out about the data analyst offer at REVER. I saw it was a YC startup and all the people I asked told me very good things about it. So I applied and I did my first interview. I didn't get any reply but they posted that they were doing like a mini-hackathon in their offices just a week later. The message just said that they wanted to replicate the scene of the social network (https://lnkd.in/dCWp8tA8) with some beers, that the schedule would be Friday from 19:30 to 22:30, and that we had to bring someone smart. So I brought one of the smartest people I know, Aniol Petit.

We arrived at 19:30 at the office and we were 20-30 people participating. We didn't know at that moment but they didn't have anything prepared yet for the challenge, so we kept talking with the REVER team until 21:00, when everything was ready. We went to the room where the hackathon would take place and we were amazed. There was a huge table in the middle of the room FULL of alcohol (ron, vodka, beers, whisky...). We started drinking and Aniol went crazy, having 3 drinks in half an hour. 

With that situation, the competition started. It was eliminatory, meaning that there were several challenges and for each of them the latest team in completing it was eliminated, until 4 teams reached the final. For the first challenge, Aniol and I worked together and passed without any problem. For the second challenge, they told us we had one minute to do it and for any extra minute we took we had to take a shot, so we took 2. We also passed, but alcohol started to show its effects, specially for Aniol. He was wasted after the second challenge, so I had to handle the next ones by my own. I managed to pass the next challenges even though I was drunk and then Aniol revived at the final phase, were we worked together and won the competition at 2:00 AM. 

After winning, Pablo (product lead) told me that we would talk on Monday. So on Monday 7:00 AM I sent him a message. He replied telling me that I had to come to the offices the same afternoon. We didn't talk about anything (contract, role, salary...), I didn't even know for sure that I was in. So I met Pablo at the office and the first thing we did was to join the weekly catchup meeting with all the team (around 50 people). There, the founders made me present myself and so I realized I was in. But it was crazy, I presented to the team without even knowing what role was I going to have. But I didn't care, because from the first moment I visited the offices the day of the competition I knew I wanted to be there.

In fact, this is one of the things that made me win. I could just show off and say that I was the best programmer in the room, but I'm sure I wasn't, there were lots of talent there. The challenges went beyond that. I explained it in a funny way but the moments of the challenges were really really tense. And this combined with the fact that we were all drunk made it even more tense. So I won because of two things: the ability to handle stress and, more importantly, because I was the most competitive one and the one that wanted to win the most. That's it. This showed me that I am capable of anything I want to, even if there are huge obstacles on the way.

So this is the story of how I went into REVER, I would say the craziest job acceptance ever. Here's my post in linkedin about it with the video (https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7321102344354426880/ ). The rest is history!







